So in the last lectures we had a look at vanilla javascript.
We added Cheikh work to improve it.
We added low dash to improve our app and then we replaced Cheikh weary with view chess and you learned
how a framework like view chess can make many things easier how it automatically takes care about some
of the things you had to do manually before.
So in the world of javascript there are some things Jake we angler and so on which we now understand
a bit better.
We all learned that these are libraries or frameworks which do fulfil certain tasks and which sometimes
may replace Shavar you typically use every Angler or react or view or you might replace J.A.G. with
any of these frameworks or are complimentary to jobber loadout or simply provide some utility functions
so you can use it just fine with either of the other frameworks or packages.
Now that's nice but the javascript the world has more things than just libraries and frameworks which
we kind of understand.
Now we also have things like ESX the next javascript word basically typescript wept and Babyland you
might have heard about these things but what do they mean which role do they play.
Well as mentioned we understand what libraries are and which are will frameworks play.
But what about the other things.
Well for weap I can babble.
These are basically built tools packages we use during development and that's important.
Which played no role.
Once the app is running on a server but which we used during development to make our life our developer's
life a bit easier.
They allow us to use features we couldn't use otherwise in conjunction with frameworks they may allow
us to use certain features easier to split our code over multiple files and then bundled together into
one bundle which we ship in the end or to optimize minute fire code.
But they are also connected to things like ESX and typescript.
These are basically just Alber words of javascript.
You could say now we only have one worker which runs in pretty much all browsers and that has javascript
or to be precise as 5.
You might not be aware of that but javascript is weren't and regularly we receive new versions of javascript
now since javascript runs in the browser.
A new version which might be available isn't automatically supported by all browsers because old browsers
typically aren't updated so they won't support a new word of javascript.
Yes 6 for example is the next question of Chalis script and it is generally available.
You could use it you could write your code in iOS 6 but if you were to ship your code like that it wouldn't
run in all browsers.
That is why we have web page.
For example a built tool and specifically baseball utterance piler which allows us to use E-6 during
development so that we can take advantage of all these nice features but then babe integrate it into
weapon which manages our whole build workflow you could say will transpire transpired iOS ESX to S-5.
So it basically comes up with ways of rewriting our E6 code and it is 5 code so that we can use new
features but ship working code and typescript is the same it's not the next wish of though it's a separate
language developed by Microsoft which builds up on javascript and adds new features and which of course
also doesn't run the browser.
So there's also has to be compiled with a different compiler here but that could also be integrated
into a workflow managed by web peg and thatis how that works to gabber how we have these different pieces
different languages just belt tools which allow us to use more features different features during development
and optimize our code and then libraries and frameworks which we already learned about.